Hi, Mystery Recapped here. Today, I’m
going to explain an American science
fiction action film called “Surrogates.”
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care!
In a futuristic world, the field of robotic
science has been highly developed. Mankind
manufactures an artificial life form called the
“surrogate”. The surrogates are realistic-looking
robots that are linked to people’s brains. They
are connected to the brains with a device that
has more than a hundred sensors. When a human
is seated on a chair-like device, those sensors
attach to different parts of the human brain.
By this process, whatever the human thinks of,
the surrogate does. Officials describe it as
controlling your second body through your brain.
The inventor of the surrogate, Lionel Canter, made
it to help disabled people live life as normal
human beings. However, only three years later,
it starts to be used in wars to strengthen the
military. As more devices are manufactured, they
become cheap enough to be bought by the general
public. This event changes the course of human
life. People begin using their surrogates to go
outside their homes and eventually, they become
fully dependent on it. Because of the surrogate,
you can go out without having to physically leave
the house which minimizes the risk of accidents,
robberies, and diseases. Moreover, you can look
however you like without having to go through
plastic surgery or exercise. The surrogate will be
the new you and will interact with the people of
your life while you control it from your home.
Only seven years after the invention, the largest
surrogate company named VSI released a statement,
saying that currently, 98% of the world population
uses surrogates in different aspects of their
lives. Humans live in near-total isolation,
rarely leaving the comfort of their homes.
Their surrogates interact with other people’s
surrogates which has become the fashion of
life now. Because of the use of surrogates,
violent crimes, communicable diseases, and
discrimination decrease to a record low.
However, not everyone is fond of this technology.
There is a minority group that believes that
humans are not supposed to live through machines.
They have established surrogate-free zones in
different parts of the US and are led by
a man widely known as the Prophet.
It is now fourteen years after the invention of
surrogates. A young man is on his way to a club.
He lies to his dad on the phone, saying that he
is about to go see an opera. At the club, he jumps
off from a balcony but lands safely suggesting
that the guy is a surrogate. He meets a girl
while dancing and brings her out. As the two make
out, a man on a motorbike uses a device on the two
to kill them. When the paramedics and police
arrive, they find out that the guy surrogate’s
memory chip is completely fried, so they cannot
find his registered owner. However, the girl
surrogate is registered by the name of Cameron
McAllister. Two FBI agents named Tom Greer and
Jennifer Peters find Cameron’s address and visit
her. However, when they reach the house, they find
out that Cameron is actually a middle-aged
man who has been killed while sitting on his
surrogate-linking device. This is the first murder
in years, so the detectives are shocked.
The scene cuts to a running subway. Tom is
returning home from work and we see everyone
around him is a surrogate. When he reaches
home, he brings water for the real him who
looks vastly different. The real Tom has
been using his handsome and young-looking
surrogate to live his life for him.
After putting the surrogate to his station,
Tom walks out of his room to meet his wife,
Maggie but instead he is greeted by maggie’s
surrogate. Tom hasn’t met his wife in a long
time and only talks to her surrogate. Tom
suggests they go for a vacation somewhere
but Maggie would rather send her surrogate
for vacation and experience life through her.
Somewhere else, some teenagers find their friend
Jarod Canter dead in his dorm room,
while still on his stim chair.
At the FBI office, the detectives are discussing
the case. They figure that whatever device the
surrogates were killed with, killed their owners
as well. Such a case was deemed impossible till
then, because the owners are not supposed to feel
what surrogates feel. They find out that Jarod
was the son of Dr. Lionel Canter, the inventor of
surrogates. Tom and Jennifer make an appointment
with Dr. Canter and go to meet his surrogate.
They figure out that Canter has been using several
surrogates at a time, which is considered
illegal. However, since he is the inventor,
the detectives dismiss it. Jarod was using
one of Canter’s surrogates when he got killed.
This makes the detectives believe that the
killer was after Canter, not Jarod.
They then go to the largest surrogate
manufacturing company, VSI headquarters to
investigate, but the CEO dismisses them, claiming
that the surrogates are 100% safe to their owners.
By the camera footage embedded in
Jarod’s surrogate when he was killed,
they find the picture of the man who killed him.
They go to a colleague named Bobby Saunders who
is an administrator of the FBI computer system. He
figures Jarod’s killer’s name is Miles Strickland.
Bobby also has access to every single surrogate
in the US and can turn them off at any time.
After finding Miles’s location, Tom and a
colleague pursue him on a helicopter. However,
as they are about to get him, Miles flashes all
the detectives with the weapon, killing both the
surrogates and the operator. He also harms the
real Tom and kills his friend. Their helicopter
crashes in a restricted area filled with anti
surrogates. Before Tom can get the killer,
his surrogate is killed by the anti surrogates.
The real Tom is injured because of the weapon.
He walks out of his room and falls unconscious.
Then, we see Miles meet the leader of the anti
surrogates, the Prophet who asks him what he
told Tom. Miles insists that he didn’t reveal any
information but the Prophet kills him anyway.
Tom wakes up in the hospital where he finds out
he has been suspended for a week for landing onto
the restricted area. However, he is determined to
solve the case, so he goes outdoors without the
surrogate for the first time in years. He then
goes to the restricted area to meet Miles again
but comes across his body being cremated. Tom
asks the Prophet about the weapon Miles used
earlier, but he claims he has never seen one.
The Prophet’s men realize he is a cop and beat
him. Tom gets out of the restricted area when a
young man offers him a ride home. Turns out
the man is Canter’s surrogate. He asks Tom
about Jarod’s murder case. Canter advises Tom to
focus on the weapon and where it came from. When
an injured Tom reaches home, he sees Maggie with
her young friends hanging out in the living room.
Maggie gets nervous when she sees him, but
he doesn’t confront her. Later, Tom sees her
talking to a man and beats him but the man
is a surrogate so it doesn’t bother him.
In the following scene, we see a man break into
Jennifer’s house and kill her. Right after,
he takes control of her surrogate.
The following day, Tom visits the military
general and asks him about the weapon. The general
informs him that the weapon is called an “overload
device”. It was made as a war weapon to
bug the surrogates with a software virus.
However, the officials didn’t know that the
virus would kill the operators as well.
After they figured it out, the manufacture of
the weapon was ceased. VSI was the manufacturer
of the weapon and they destroyed every unit of
it. However, this one weapon was left out. In
exchange for the information, Tom tells them
that the restricted area has the weapon.
Then we see the Prophet hand his men the weapon
to deliver it to Jennifer’s surrogate.
Tom then goes to Maggie’s work and asks her if
she misses their son. It turns out that the two
had lost their son in a car accident and Maggie
has not been able to recover since. We get a
glimpse of her real self who is old and wrinkly,
a total opposite of her surrogate. She and Tom
are still grieving the loss of their child.
Somewhere else, the military attacks the Prophet
and his men to get the weapon back from
them. However, when they shoot the Prophet,
who is the leader of the anti surrogates,
they find out that he is also a surrogate.
The scene cuts to Dr. Canter on his computer
monitoring the person in front of the Prophet. We
get to know that Canter was the one posing as the
Prophet to stop the use of his own invention.
Tom meets Jennifer’s surrogate, who is now
being controlled by Canter. She tells Tom
that Canter’s son was killed by VSI and their
boss Andy Stone. They had figured out that
Canter was trying to stop the use of surrogates
which would cause VSI a huge loss. Therefore,
they, along with Stone, planned to kill Canter
with the weapon. However, they killed his son
mistakenly. Carter couldn’t bear the thought
of his son dying and made it his mission
to kill all the people using surrogates.
However, he needs the weapon and a code to make
it function. Jennifer already has the weapon. She
tells Tom that Stone was involved to kill Jarod
and asks him to bring Stone’s computer file to
her as evidence. Tom goes to meet Stone and knocks
him out. He then downloads everything from Stone’s
computer and rushes out. Now that Jennifer finally
has the weapon and the code, she has to go to
Bobby to induce the virus through the weapon
to every surrogate in the world. Tom realizes
that Jennifer’s surrogate has been taken over,
but just then they get into an accident.
Jennifer runs to Bobby, while Tom rushes
to the root of the problem, Canter.
Jennifer holds Bobby at gunpoint and
induces the virus into the system. In a few
minutes, everyone with a surrogate will die.
Just then, Tom reaches Canter’s mansion
and asks him why he is doing all this.
Canter replies that he had made the surrogates
to help handicapped people, not for everyone to
be dependent on it. Now that his son is dead,
he doesn’t want to let his death go in vain
and wants to end the surrogate “addiction”.
After laying out his reasons, Canter takes a pill
and kills himself. Tom takes over Jennifer’s
surrogate and asks Bobby how he can stop the
virus from spreading. Bobby quickly tells
him the codes and the two successfully save
the surrogate’s operator. Now Tom has to
click a ‘yes’ to save all the surrogates.
He hesitates as Bobby tells him they have only
a few seconds left. He finally presses ‘No’,
disabling all the surrogates in the world. We see
hundreds of surrogates stop working in the street.
Soon, their owners come out of their
homes for the first time in years.
Tom rushes back to his home to see the real maggie
is not in her room. He finds her in their son’s
bedroom and the movie ends as the two hug.
Subscribe for more videos like this,
turn on notifications, and leave a like to help
the channel out. Thank you for watching.